Hi and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be looking at
returning the current class,
as a type in our type hints.
And this is a really useful thing to do
in most of your programmes.
Just because it lets you, in just one line
tell whoever is calling your methods
that we are gonna return an object of the class,
item model or store model, and so on.
And the way you do that
is very straightforward.
All you have to do is go to the method
that you want to make return
a type of the current class.
That is, the class that you're currently in,
in this method.
And just say
item model, like so.
So here's the thing,
you cannot do this
because item model doesn't exist,
by the time that this gets evaluated.
Item model exists after this gets evaluated.
However, if you use quotes
and make it return, essentially,
this string here,
what's going to happen is Python
is gonna be smart enough to know
that what you intend to do,
is evaluate this return type
after the current file has been imported.
So when that happens, it's going to be able to say,
"Okay, you're gonna return an item model,
"which is this class that we're currently in."
But it doesn't know, until that has happened.
PyChart, however, is of course, smart enough.
And most of the editors are as well
to know that this is going to be
a class of type item model
and you don't have to worry about anything.
This is the way that Python recommends
returning self type, essentially.
Similarly, for the find all method here
in the item class we can return a list of item model.
And that does the same thing.
So as you can see, item model inside quotes
can be used as a type,
like list or str or int r.
So that is the recommended way
of returning the current class as a type.
We can go ahead into our store
and do the same thing with find by name.
And also with this
store model list.
And also in the user.py
we can do the same with find by username
and find by ID.
All right, that's it.
This is how you can return the current class as a type.
And it's really straightforward
but I probably just saved you a bunch of time
trying to find out how to do this.
I know that when we were looking for,
when we were researching for this course
it wasn't so clear,
how to return the current class as type.
It took us a wee while to find
exactly how and what the best way to do it is.
So now you know,
this is the best way.
It's the simplest way as well.
So go ahead and use this in your Python applications.
That's it for this video.
And I'll see you on the next one.